coming out soon we're gonna be releasing
dr k's guides to mental health the guys
are organized into three modules
so the depression module is designed for
people to understand
like how depression works how i think
about depression
the anxiety module is for people who are
interested in learning more about
anxiety like not just from a clinical
perspective but also understanding from
a mental perspective how anxiety works
in the mind like where do anxious
thoughts come from
how do they propagate things like that
you know something that i'm super
excited about is also the meditation
module so for those of you who are
curious
about understanding you know my approach
to meditation like what are the
different
it's there's a lot of theoretical
understanding as well as
um you know 20 practices or more so if
you guys are interested in that you know
go ahead and check out the guides
so how's it going good buddy how are you
i am good a little hectic this morning
uh
you know as i told you before coming
here but
yeah i woke up really early i had to get
a bunch of stuff done and then uh
came back home just in the nick of time
cool friday's we're calling you fridays
those days where everyone sort of you
know does their thing comes home and
relax and then i'm just
i'm one of those people where it's like
friday's the busiest day of my week
two weeks i think that is uh
my work schedule is more geared towards
the weekend like weekends are where i
just sort of
get all of my stuff done and then i try
to make a
relaxing weekday for me you know as much
as i can
that i'm really all over the place so
it's like
when it comes to weekends after i'm done
my work i don't
my off time is doing more busy stuff is
doing more like intricate stuff
so that's that's that that's what comes
down you know it's like there's really
there's really no moment where i'm like
completely off you know like just
relaxing on a weekend
so um with ours uh thanks for coming on
by the way and and dude what do you go
about pleasure to be on
my name is uh just muda mudahar it works
i'm actually glad you're one of the few
people that first messaged me and it
wasn't like hi mr ordinary gamers
because i get that a lot and
you know yeah it's never fun give me
just one second i'm gonna try to just
switch our server and see if that fixes
it
so so you go by mudahar yeah that's what
i go by
your first name um
yeah no go ahead i thought i was just uh
i was getting like a weird
thing on here but yeah no i know it's a
pretty weird unorthodox
you know first name and everything
how many people have it yeah so mudahar
versus mutahar
do you know which one uh i should go in
no
that is uh no mudahar is fine i never
went with the second one that's
okay i got it that that may be i
may i may get it wrong a couple of times
oh don't worry about it almost everyone
almost everyone gets it wrong
muda sounds very texan so i just got to
channel my inner texans
oh you're from you're from texas that's
some good stuff i've been down there a
few times so
i hope to go again when all of our
lockdowns take you know
yeah and restrictions go down and how
long have you been in canada
uh my whole life really wow uh
i would say i would say like if you're
talking about me moving here probably
when i was less than a year old so
i wasn't i wasn't born up here in canada
but you know i'm
pretty much born canadian if you will
right
you know i'm surprised by how how
similar your accent sounds to people
down here
you know i i thought about that too for
a while when i lived in the states a
little bit uh the first i ever lived in
the states was michigan everyone told me
that i didn't sound canadian and i was
like what is the
what is the metric for sounding canadian
you know what i mean
and then i drove an hour up from where i
live and then i was like oh that's what
the real canadian sounds like okay
all right okay that's really off
so you said you moved here um you moved
to canada when you were a year old
from where yeah uh india you know
and what what part of india are your
parents from uh
my whole family is uh from luck now
utter pradesh uh
you got like half my family from luck
now and then you got half my family who
like
move to pakistan during the partition so
it's like it's just spread across the
board you know
okay um so i i have family back home but
i would say like
my side of the family where i'm from
were were indian
you know yeah got it and it was there
something in particular that you wanted
to talk about today muda
honestly uh as i mentioned this earlier
it's just the idea of the whole like
lockdowns on isolation it's just been
insane
the last from a canadian i think we've
had the worst lockdowns
uh when i look at all my american
friends right like they're able to go
out for like months on end and we've
been locked down for like six seven
months straight like the hardest
lockdowns no stores open
no nothing everything has been
completely curbside yeah uh
meeting family has been the hardest
because
you you know when you go to meet family
in canada during the lockdown
you have to you have to do what's known
as car tetris i guess where you have to
like park your cars in like
a block over so the police driving by
doesn't like notice like more than four
people are in a house meeting each other
despite them being family so it's been a
complete like everyone is stuck home
and the entire government sort of pushed
this just talk over zoom which
isn't the healthiest thing right like
you can't just sit over and hold on a
second if there are four
cars in a parking lot the police will
yeah if they if they notice more than
like two cars in a driveway they have
the idea that there's like a big
gathering in the area and then they just
come in and find you like crazy and it's
oh my god so they're just like police
like patrolling
your residential streets yeah
oh yeah well there was a there was a
point i think two months ago where they
gave like the
toronto like greater toronto area police
officers the right to just like
pull your car over on the drive like out
on the road
and they could pull you over and ask you
what you were doing and they could like
fine you i guess if you didn't get the
right answer
no cop ever enforced that all the police
chief said that was a bad idea so
that's where we were for a while in
canada at least
uh all while they didn't stop all the
international travel so
everyone from around the world just kept
coming in and we had to like you know
stay in our houses which
um i'm not like i'm not a doctor so i
don't want to like elaborate more on
that i'm sure there's a reason but like
you know it's just at some point it gets
too hard to deal with you know like
trying to meet your family i haven't
seen my family well now i've seen them
you know in the last several weeks but
there was a period where i was like okay
let's you know talk over the phone i
guess let's facetime each other and it
was
it was never the same because i took it
very much for granted before the
lockdown ever began
i was always like a solo guy like i was
always living you know on my own and
having a good time
but we would always go meet each other
over the weekends right like you know
dinners you know go out to eat and then
it's like for the last six months
there was like a period where they
stopped the lockdown for like 12 hours
and then they just started it up again
that same night so we had
we had lockdowns over six months i would
say and then it was just we were
yeah we were completely separated
hardcore in
in the province that i'm in what's that
been like for you
uh i would say the worst
i mean like i said it's it's something
that i definitely took for granted
hardcore and i'll never take it again
for granted after right like the last
time i could remember
going out for like a meal with friends
was like august of
2019 you know like that's what like 2019
is where like my last you know brain
kicks in like wow that was when uh
things were normal
and then i had a flight to texas you
know
because we had packed south with friends
and i went over there we had a good time
the moment i flew back january 2020 is
like when the whole lockdown started
ramping up and you know this whole
cobin 19 broke down and then
in home ever since you know work from
home
do nothing occasionally meeting friends
you know
once in a while but so other than that
when you say it's been rough like
in what way has it affected you
i i miss having people next to me you
know i miss having people over you know
even if it is just a talk right like
i have very like i would say minimal
social needs i don't need to go anywhere
you know what i mean i need to like
experience
the world in that you know traditional
way what most people expect
i i i i like to i like the concept of
having friends over even if it is just
to watch a movie over there to have a
drink or you know play a video game or
something
or have a barbecue over at my house like
before the whole
coronavirus i used to see my uh got
child every once in a while right like
we went over there we had a whole family
thing
uh it's been over a year since that's
happened and he's already grown up to
like
you know just like kids grow fast so now
it's just
oh wow it's been over a year i mean what
am i gonna do
and that's where we're at you know it's
it really sets
into stone how important it is to have
like an actual physical
connection and like be there to other
because you can't do it over the
internet like no matter what anyone says
you can't do you know zoom calls you
can't do
even when it comes to work right like
when it came to my job
we do like a small business over here so
we're like we're like a family right we
see each other in the office all the
time now that we're home
you know what the heck right like it's
all over the place you know even
even physical health-wise you know
whereas i used to go out and do
activities here and there now
because we're all locked in you know
what are you gonna do right like
your timings are all over the place what
what do you do
how do you spend your uh for me my
well i have a pretty strict schedule now
for work right like i start work at like
eight o'clock
i end it by 3 30 p.m like i used to a
year or two ago like i used to be
hardcore into that 24 hour no work life
balance which
completely threw me out for a loop right
it was the worst thing you can ever do
with your health
so now i have like this you know i wake
up early
finish you know sometime reasonably
before the sun goes down and then i go
out for a walk you know i
go out and you know run here and there
or
you know just breed some fresh air and
then by like seven o'clock i'll wind
down
and and muda can you just can we
actually rewind a little bit can you
tell me a little bit about what
growing up in canada was like and stuff
like that growing up in canada
is about i guess one could expect like i
mean i had a normal childhood i'm not
gonna i don't have like
wild stories but i'll say as an indian
kid growing up post 9 11 that's
the one thing that i would remember the
hardest a lot of people make canada out
like it's this
crazy multicultural loving society and
that's true for
you know 95 of the scenarios but when
you're the only indian kid growing up
after you know
what is one of the greatest north
american tragedies you know
there's going to be a lot of people who
look at you and in a way
that whole experience probably shaped me
into the person that i am
because i've always said this on stream
right like when i went through
that period of you know being bullied
for being isolated based on you know
who i was i could either absolutely you
know
let this ruin me or i could just you
know hunker down
i could realize okay i can take this
adversity and i can you know channel it
and i can
turn it into a productive you know i i
can fight against it in a productive
manner and i feel like that's what i've
done now so it's
how do you do that uh work hard
you know back when i back as indian kids
growing up you know as asian kids your
parents always tell you about
how important it is you know to be good
at school you know you always got to get
a pluses you always got to do this you
always got to do that
and growing up in canada in that
environment
it's so much more important it's so much
stronger to realize that
the only way that you can prove your
worth in society right and at least this
is how i learned is
you have to get into the system and you
have to be the best of the best in the
system regardless of how much it is
stacked against you right so
i would say for an immigrant kid
literally an immigrant child
you know it's probably two times harder
than the average person you have to deal
with over here but
it is doable regardless of how much you
have to sacrifice in your life
and i've had to sacrifice you know high
school is when i pretty much started
working and only now at 27 am i winding
down my life
you know like only now do i feel like i
can breathe right so
it's uh it's it's been a journey like
growing up especially here especially
with how
um you know that environment was post 9
11 right
wow yeah and and so
let me just think for a second so do you
have siblings you mind if i ask
i have uh one brother yeah okay older
younger
younger five years younger than me and
and did you get a sense of
so so you're you're like a full-time
youtuber now right
uh it's a hobby sort of but okay yeah
yeah hobbyist at this point so when you
say so when you say you work from eight
to three thirty can you help me
understand what
what you consider work so eight to three
thirty
is when i start up my actual work
computer because i have two separate
computers right like a work computer and
then like a gaming computer right i keep
it completely separate because
when i have games installed on my work
computer it
you know mine goes somewhere else i'll
play this match in there so i started my
work computer uh
when it comes to my actual you know job
i work as you know i work investing and
you know at this point right like stock
market stuff so
i got to wake up i got to wake up early
i got to like screen stuff and i got to
like screen stocks and i got to like
look at investments so i'll buy and sell
early in the morning
and i'm usually done by like noon
if i'm you know oh so i missed that so
you're like a day trader
yeah i used to be but now it's just you
know at this point that that was what i
used to do for a while and now things
have become more
relaxed so it's just buying and selling
and that's pretty much what it is for me
so buying large commodities and putting
them on the market selling and things of
that nature
and so what did you think you were going
to do in high school
oh man i had no prospects coming out of
high school i was so
in the middle of work and studying that
around the time of 11th grade
because in high school they tell you is
your 11th grade results and your 12th
grade results is what matters to go to
college
i was so busy at the time that i was
like man what did i want to do
um if i had any goal in my life
uh it was to be a lawyer because that's
i would consider that have been my dream
job for the longest time is to work in
law
but uh this is a point where money going
into law school is probably one of the
after medical school it might be the
second most expensive form of schooling
maybe
toe to toe so that wasn't a reality for
me at the time
after high school it was just i actually
applied to the army but
you know that didn't go anywhere
eventually i just worked
i went to university for computer
sciences and that's it
and and so you said you were working in
high school what kind of work did you do
in high school
uh just computer work early and that's
what i was doing you know your basic
like part-time work nothing you know
substantial i was also a student at the
time and
in fact a lot of my work really ended up
being just like basic community
service work just to rack on the hours
because in canada you have to do your
minimal amount of community service to
graduate like 40 hours
but 40 hours is like the minimum you
need like
way over 40 if you want to get into a
good university or at least even have an
attempt
so i was always working for free either
that making some part-time cash on the
side
um and that's pretty much or you know
getting my
studies done some night schooling
because we had to get more credits than
i had because i moved around a lot
during high school
in america and canada so when you move
around during high school
your credits don't carry over sometimes
so i had to take some extra classes to
even be able to graduate and get into
university so it was a hectic period
hectic four years of my life
that you know that doesn't sound very
fun
it is absolutely the most unfun thing
and
you know what makes it even more unfun
is when you're not good at a lot of your
subjects like i was never good at
english
i didn't have a lot of good creative
classes i was in the only class that i
was really
really good at was math that's about it
that's my background right like math is
one of those things where it's like okay
you give me a formula i'll be able to
you know
extrapolate based on that but uh i i
literally could not do
i i was just i wasn't really feeling all
the other subjects i was good at it like
i could get good grades but
you're not feeling it right like i don't
want to go to this english class like
sure i'll
get your 90 and i'll call it a day but
it's not fun for me it's not engaging me
uh the only class that i actually even
ever enjoyed
asides from math which i'm saying
enjoyed because
i i like numbers you know to an extent
was a video production class it was sort
of like you know one of those electives
you would have
you would just pick in so i was like i
get to edit videos on final cut pro it
sounds like you worked really hard in
high school
talking about taking night classes doing
community service
like side jobs on the side like mm-hmm
yeah no it's it's blurred i'll i'll help
you understand
yeah i mean can you help me understand
like what was in your mind
like if you're a sophomore in high
school
like my mind was to in my head i had
this long-term goal of keeping my grade
point average
above a certain point right that's my
long-term goal
um in sophomore year super important
because in my head
i always think like this right like when
they told me that 11th grade and 12th
grade was the important grades where
they would calculate them like there's
no way you're ever going to be
successful in those grades if you don't
start that success from the 9th grade or
the 10th grade era right like if you're
just slacking off for the first two
years
that mentality rolls in to those last
two years so i was always
working hard and maintaining my gpas
having my prerequisites all of that
stuff even when we were moving around
right i was calculating okay i just lost
these many credits
i gotta have this much to graduate i was
there was a point man for like
11th grade i was just focused on can i
graduate normally do i have to like
victory lap based on how much i moved
around
you know that's that's what was running
in my head so
um and i remember like moving around my
dad who
is in the medical field he moves around
a lot because of it uh i never
ever told him that yeah this is really
piling on to me dad because i didn't
want to like you know be a burden on it
i don't want to tell him to
know screw your job over because i'm
telling you so i just kind of rolled
with it i
dealt with the punches because i'm
telling you high school felt like i was
in the longest boxing match of my life
and there was no breaks right like it
was just that's punch
punch it was punch punch punch dude even
summer breaks we had those two month
breaks and for a lot of students for a
lot of guys it's like two months off
i hold on i'm just getting a little two
months off
i it feels like forever for me two
months off felt like a weekend now you
know
it's just like all right school's ended
okay i got some homework i got to focus
on what's happening
going into this next grade i got to make
sure that you know i have i even had
like a money
you know like goal too because i was
like i got to save enough cash
in order to even think of going to
college or university right so
wow yeah like i would say
growing up for me happened uh forcibly
you know
a lot of people get to enjoy their life
like you know their younger age they get
to make their mistakes
i was on like a tight rope with no
safety net
imagine having the imagine having the
like the the skinniest thread going
across the niagara falls
and you have to cross the entire thing
and there's no safety net
so that's what my life kind of felt like
felt like for a while
when did you realize how old were you
when you realized that you have no
safety net
uh probably
first year of college i would say when i
when i got into college right because
when i i thought when i got into
university for a while and i dropped out
like a semester in because i was like
okay no no i'm not doing
because university of toronto like the
first semester that you went in you paid
this
crazy amount and uh
at this point i started you know getting
more work on the side i started building
up a career so i was like wait a minute
do i choose to go through this
university path which will work for me
or to go on the career path that's when
i realized like okay i'm on that tight
rope you know like i'm on
i've got no safety in it like i'm after
high school high school was that era
where i could make my mistakes right
now i'm in college now i'm in the
professional field you know now i'm like
on my own i have to make money to pay my
mortgages or
rent at the time and that's when i
realized okay now i can't make a single
mistake
now i'm stuck in now whatever i choose
to go
whatever choice i make now will affect
my weeks going on forward that's where
my mind was
you know first year of college i find
that a little bit hard to believe
um because i i know it sounds kind of a
weird thing to say but like
it sounds to me like you you were sort
of really think
i mean maybe you had a safety net of
sorts but it sounds to me like even when
you were a freshman or sophomore in high
school you were like
i gotta start now like you know it's i
almost hear that mentality there
like even earlier than college where
like if you screw up
in 10th grade there's no way you can do
what you need to in 11th grade or 12th
grade
no i i'll say that i had the mentality
in high school like that then
because like i told you earlier i was
like okay i got to make sure my grades
are good yeah
to get accepted into college but when i
got into college right you think like
for a second that you can breathe for a
bit now that you're in college you know
you've gotten into
the university you've wanted to you're
into the program and it's still hard
right like it you know it's
it's not high school you know advanced
anymore it's still
it's it's you're professional at that
point and i think the reality of
when i turned 18 and i became a full
adult and you know i didn't have my
parents to depend on anymore
i had like it felt like every choice
decision that i was making was
completely on me and like
college that you know 18 to like 25 was
that moment where like every
decision i make will affect how my life
is forward i feel like that's
that's where i realized like okay you
know call high school
maybe i could have made a mess up or two
right maybe
you know but not not in my college or
professional
life you sound very um
you know like the future was sort of
like bearing down on you like every
single day like that's
sort of what i'm feeling it's like
there's sort of this i still feel like
that man i mean
even though like i'm 27 now and i think
i've got my life together
i still think about what life is going
to be like at 40 for me right
and yeah it's interesting because my dad
one day sat me down
you know just before the pandemic he's
like because i told him this exact same
conversation that we're having right now
it's
deja vu for me i told him about like i
got a prep for my life at 40 and my dad
one time he told me he's like do you
even know if you're going to be alive at
40. like my dad had this conversation it
was a weird conversation
like dad why would you think that right
like and the dad's like no it's a legit
question like are you gonna be
you know alive at 40. like how do you
know that
how do you know why are you choosing to
like live for life and
why are you prepping for 40 when you're
not even living now
and even though we had that conversation
it's hard to ever get out of that
mindset you know like it's there's never
a night
i have where i go to bed and i don't
think
tomorrow you know the responsibilities
that i have right like
you know all of that just sort of
compiles on you
i would absolutely love to have like a
mental guide map i feel like
this is this is actually a really great
question for me i
i look at life in the numbers and like
what's there you know like
good example right like when i look at
things tomorrow right i'm like this is
how much i need to pay for my bill
tomorrow my mortgage you know every
payment for the next six seven months
right i look at it from a numbers
perspective right like this is what i
need
but i never look at myself right i never
realized what do i need to make sure
mentally
is what i'm prepared for for the next
day right like
what how do i make sure that i'm
mentally like sane six months from now
right how do i make sure that i don't
overwork myself to like you know literal
insanity so yeah i would actually like
the help there is there a problem
yes there's a big problem that's because
your goal
is actually reinforcing the problem
so it's subtle but you're like
you know so like instead of thinking
about dollars like you've said oh
muda has like a bank account and he has
like
a mental bank account and what i'm doing
right now is i'm withdrawing money from
my mental bank account to make sure my
physical bank account is good
how do i ensure that my mental bank
account
is nice and full you see what i'm saying
but it's still that that mentality of
like how do i make sure that tomorrow is
gonna be okay
yeah and and we could talk about
isolation in the pandemic if you want to
i i you know this is it's
it's really your i feel like it's more i
feel like it's more interesting to hit
the root of my actual mental problem
here
yeah if you're gay this is yeah this is
way beyond isolation this is like my
entire life
yep and that's what we're here so let's
you okay diving in a little bit
yeah i'm okay diving in okay if i if you
ask you a question that makes you
i'll let you know if i want to answer
yeah yeah
right okay um i was about to say it
makes you uncomfortable but
i think it's okay for me to ask you
questions that make you uncomfortable
and you got to let me know if i step too
far
okay okay so i'm i'm going to start with
so
tell me what it's like to live one day
in your head
if i was an observer in your head what
would what would i witness
well you'd witness me waking up
and immediately checking all my emails
work things for what we have to do today
for the next week throughout the week
you know doing all of that busy work in
your head making all your calls making
all you know
you know your day-to-day communication
and then uh living
basically i would say hour by hour as to
handling in and making sure all of your
work responsibilities are met day-to-day
i would say that if you were an observer
looking in you'd probably notice that
for an hour in the morning
i get to breathe a little bit and then
for the rest of the day it's like
autopilot
you know like work i'm doing this and
then towards the end of the day like you
know
4 4 35 is when you get to see me again
right like i've entered my body
seeing me be myself and what what is
what is it like when you enter your body
again
it's uh
i guess it's like a feeling of just i
guess uh
well for one you know you you get to
breathe again you know you get to be
yourself you get to focus on what your
hobbies are you get to focus on what you
want to do for the rest of the day right
now you finally gotten your body back
so for me it's like hey do i go out for
a walk or do i go home and i sit and
program something that i'm into because
one of the things that i love to do
after work is i love to you know sit
around and program and tinker with you
know a couple computers that i have
sitting around over here so for me
the rest of the day is just basically
what i love you know like
what i actually want to do not what i
have to do to to survive
day by day right so for me that's what
it comes down to and then
that's pretty much what it is regardless
of what my channel name is some ordinary
gamers i do
i don't do a whole lot of gaming
throughout the week unfortunately
because of responsibilities anymore
but uh you know that's the day of my
life an observer if you will
um i'm doing something every hour
there's never a point where i sit down
and i
i really breathe you know like i have
like my moments but i'm always
what happens when you sit down and try
to breathe
i honestly can't like everyone gives me
advices on meditation uh you know like
breathe for like 15 minutes
you know do something and i keep doing
it but like there's this feeling of
anxiety
i would say like there's this feeling
that a physical feeling it's almost like
you know when your
throat is raspy
you know what i mean like it almost
feels like it's just you're throwing
lava down your throat like it's just
it's
you just don't feel good it's kind of
like a panic attack if you will because
i feel like i have to be doing something
it could be anything it could be
something it could literally be me like
you know spinning something in my hand
right like a fidget spinner whatever
anything but i i don't know if i can sit
down in a chair
and just close my eyes and breathe
non-stop for 15 minutes because in my
head i'm always like wow you could have
done something productive you could have
done something
you've just sat down and literally did
nothing you know you just sat down in
your own head
my brain doesn't allow me to sort of
think for a little bit to
to be in my head you know because my
head there's another voice that tells me
you gotta do this you gotta do that you
got to make sure this is done
you're wasting your time you know you
have this responsibility for tomorrow
you got to make sure that it's set
like i had i had a video project that i
had to get done
on friday one time this was a month ago
i uh i do a big video project on my
channel every month
so i divide up the whole thing you know
like i'll do an hour of it
one day and then i'll do an hour of it
the other day so i've already divided it
you know but even though that i've
allocated one hour of my day to this
project
when i sit down to breathe i'm like you
could have applied this half an hour to
this project and sort of gotten it done
faster you could have made the project
better
so when i'm uploading this video in my
head i'm like wow it could be way better
than what i did
i wasted you know free time it'll always
constantly run through your head like
there's never a there's never a point
where your brain will allow you to stop
and
think and be yourself it's always you
can do something you can be doing
something
you're not doing anything so i wouldn't
say worthless feeling but you know
it's it's not healthy at the same time i
don't know how to exactly describe that
i don't know the term if it exists but
how does it feel to share that
ah it doesn't yeah it feels
weird like i keep a lot of this in my
head man yeah
i never have the i don't think i have
the courage to ever describe this
to people you know like if you were to
sit across from me and you asked me hey
are you okay
i would most likely give you a lie like
i would lie to your face and be like i'm
totally
you know like i don't think i have the
why does it require courage to i just
feel like i'm
opening myself i feel like i'm coming
across as weak when i tell you like
i you know i'm calling myself this
worthless individual in my head i don't
want to like reiterate that same thing
to you i'll tell you that i'm doing fine
like even when it came to my parents
right it's like are you okay like are
you doing so i would always tell them
yeah
i'm absolutely wonder like even even
when we were moving around and i could
my dad like hey moving around in high
school would have been pretty bad like
it would have added stress i'm like no
dad it's 100 great i'll make it work
absolutely so you know this is one lie
you keep telling yourself and you try to
lie enough about that that you end up
believing
yourself i guess i feel weak in my head
like
i can't i don't have the i don't have
the courage to tell somebody that i feel
weak in my
i've always felt that those feelings
are a lot easier to deal with if you can
bottle it up
and punch through the day you know what
i mean the boxing match that never ends
the boxing match that'll never end
like some days it feels like it feels
like i i guess
it just it's like it's like somebody's
shooting me you know what i mean
it's like it's like it's like it's like
i'm getting shot every day right like
it's like that feeling right like that
punch to your stomach you know what i
mean and it's like
you can tell somebody that it hurts you
can tell somebody that it you know
you know you can lean on somebody or you
can just sort of
deal with the fact that it happened to
you and move on you know if that makes
any sense right like
you know you've you've already had the
impact
so are you gonna are you gonna waste
time sticking with it are you gonna
waste time
thinking to yourself what you could have
changed or will you just proceed to go
on or will you fight on ahead right
yeah persevere yeah perseverance exactly
you know
the strong survive type mentality that
like
there's no time for a break your brain
won't let you sit quietly for 15 minutes
absolutely not because you have to
persevere
and if you don't then your brain will
tell you you're wasting time
do you feel me sharing this right now
yeah actually
to be honest with you i feel uh yeah i
feel i
i i got i gotta i gotta i gotta
i have spent my entire life bottling
things up you know like if anything is
genuinely hurting me mentally
i felt that it's easier if i can just
bottle it up and push on but i've got
you know younger siblings i've got
parents you know like
the older they get the more i gotta take
care of them so it's like i gotta be in
that mentality
in some ways i gotta get used to be the
stone if you will right like this
tanooki suit from
mario which is like just perfectly still
like it just nothing can affect it
yeah i know the thing about the tanooki
suit is that you can't move anywhere
stay stuck
i mean i know listen in my head i know
at one point like for a long time
that if i keep doing it will be the
death of me like physically
if i if i choose to keep doing this
concept of
if i choose if i choose to keep bottling
myself up
i am eventually killing myself by doing
you know because there's no way that
i i feel like mentally i'll be able to
keep doing it for 10 more years like if
i'm 35 36 still bottling and things
that's going to be where my brain stops
working and
you know i'm just either i become such
an emotionless person either i do with
it that i lose who i am
or you know gets worse it's
unsustainable it's just not possible
it's not something healthy but i don't
know the way out i don't know how to
escape it
what scares me the most is i won't ever
figure out how to escape it
what's your understanding of
what's my understanding of okay i think
for a second muda
yeah yeah no absolutely go ahead take
your time
i don't want to feel like i'm one of
your you know hard cases or something
like
yeah so sorry i i i i get the sense
you're very anxiously looking at my face
and trying to interpret
how i'm sitting with what you're sharing
so let me just start talking because
i've
i'm afraid that if i sit silently for a
minute your mind is gonna
like create all kinds of negative
thoughts does that make sense yeah yeah
it already is beginning so what is it
share with me what your mind is
telling you right now well in your head
when you look around it's like when you
have when your eyes open up a little bit
and you're you know it's like earlier
you're like the [ __ ] right like you were
just like what's going on with
i was like man in my head for a second
i'm like i guess i'm i guess i'm too far
gone i guess i'm just one of those
people that he's like
i thought this guy was you know i
thought i thought i thought you know i
could do some work with this guy and i
was just
oh he's gone i uh uh i'm i'm very
confident that we can do work i can
i can feel very good about helping you
with this
um so so but and and i i think it's
tricky because no matter what i say even
if i
if i say something like that i would
imagine that instead of being reassured
you would actually feel like
maybe a little bit ashamed if i say
something like that
do you detect it actually actually you
hit it right on the money there
right now yeah
now now what what is it tell me when i
say
no no don't worry i can absolutely help
you with this and then what do you feel
i don't know i just i guess i feel like
the the positivity like sort of the
laugh for a second that you had
it almost i would feel like it's kind of
like a pitying in a way you know what i
mean like i don't know we can we can
deal with it
it's just it's it's hard for my brain to
believe it
you know it's hard for my brain to
believe it after so long what does it
believe
what is it my brain believes it's my
brain honestly believes
so it's my brain just telling me that
it's all like just bs and you can't just
do it you know
yeah my my brain is working against it
it's very difficult to explain how it's
working against it but it's it's it's
treating this whole scenario like
like it's it's all a joke and maybe like
someone's pitying you for what you're in
right now
um but i mean i i'm trying like in my
head i'm trying to convince myself yeah
okay
you know this is help right i don't want
it to be pity
no yeah we're good we're gonna help you
out so we're gonna calm your brain down
you ready
okay yeah so it's it's better to be dead
than weak
right that's true yeah you know you
don't like
like it's fine to suffer but like you
don't actually like need someone's help
you don't need your pity you can punch
through
you know and if like if the cost is your
mental health if the cost is a heart
attack
that's a price we're willing to pay
it's all good like we can handle that
we've survived this [ __ ] no mess
you know how messed up it is that i
believe that 100 that is like
that is a mantra i could live by like
it's better to be dead than it is weak
that's that's you've literally hit my
life [ __ ] like you
you like you know like you walk into an
office and they have like their company
slogan
you've exactly like wrote the company
slogan out there it's better to be dead
than it is
yeah when you say you could live your
life by it bro you have been living your
life
yeah you're right i haven't looked any
other way hypothetical my dude
yeah no no it's not
yeah exactly i'm making it sound like i
could be in the situation no i
am in the situation i am living in that
i built the entire house myself
yeah absolutely yeah right absolutely i
mean it's like you know that's your
company slogan this is the house that
you've built
right that's the bet i made you know i
better lay in it i guess
absolutely right it's it's my i chose
this
yeah right i have no one to blame i
don't need anyone's help no one needs to
pity me like
i did this yeah no 100
i i mean like i think of life as like in
a way i know that i said isolation i i
i said it earlier that i'm a very like
reserved like i'll
engage with everyone around me but in a
lot of ways and
if if i guess i feel i guess i feel like
in my head like the only life i've ever
known is being
alone on an island or sort of by
yourself trudging through every aspect
of your life yourself because it's like
for me i don't think i can rely on
anyone professionally i always put it on
to myself and that's
how i've succeeded in my life and that's
how i'll continue to succeed i think
it's very hard for me to include any
full partner you know what i mean like
uh
honestly i i feel like a lot of my
relationships in life have failed right
like
well you know romantic relationships
because i choose to
it's great for a while but then i just
tend to reserve and
get back into myself and it's hard for
me to end up trusting anyone else and
sort of confiding anymore like
literally the conversation that we just
had now i could never have even if i was
we're talking like two years into our
relationship if we talk
never this this is never going to happen
me and you we can never be together
i don't know i mean it could have been
life is
you know what i mean who knows but like
that conversation that like level of
okay you gave me my company slogan we
would never even get like
a quarter into that conversation like
anything they would like ask me
uh you know it's like are you okay my
response would be like i'm great
you know like yeah perfect absolutely
you know how's work
even though i could have had the worst
day like i could have lost a contract
i'm like it's great
what would it what would it mean to say
things aren't going great
what would it mean to say things aren't
going great for me is if you could look
around me and see the entire burning
pile that i'm in you know
like if my if my if you walked by my
office and it was like yeah foreclosed
everything gone company's dead you know
they have to dissolve
that's what it would take for me to say
yeah you know
it's not no but so so let's say that
that you you just had a bad day
what would it mean to you or what would
your brain tell you if you tried to
share with someone
oh my brain would tell me you don't
share because like that other person
they're probably going to look at you
like wow this is the guy that
like what an idiot like only an idiot
messes up like that right like kind of
like if i lost a contract my brain would
be like don't tell them that they'll
think you're a [ __ ] idiot for telling
that they'll think you didn't look you
can't even do your job you're like
you're like inept doing your job because
that's what my brain says like don't
bother like even if somebody asks me
that like if my parents will do it i'll
be like
work is going fine don't worry about it
even though
you know if i have a bad day i have a
bad day i can't you know tell anybody
anything
uh uh muda i'd i'd like a moment to
think
but i i want us to be a little bit
careful about what kind of judgments
your mind is telling you
yeah okay um
i'm just trying to figure out how to
help help you through this a little bit
and and don't worry you're going to do
it all on your own i'm just going to
point the way you're going to do all the
heavy lifting okay bro
all right just can i have a second yeah
no absolutely go for it
how you holding up by the way i i am
i'm actually surprisingly good right now
i had a good i had a good day before we
came over here like i got all of my work
pretty much done out with so
everything's great
everything is fine quite a bad day it'd
be up
i had a i had a good day before we
started this but but it's
no no i have a good day now but like
that would have like if
i had a terrible if i didn't get my job
like if i didn't get my work done before
we started i would have been like in a
completely off mood
so now i'm just like all right so here's
here's what we're getting here's my
hypothesis okay i'm gonna just lay
things out for you because i'm a little
bit
concerned about i want to try to help
you participate in the health healthiest
way possible
one really healthy way to participate is
that i can just predict what your brain
is going to tell you and we can kind of
like work through that just notice what
your brain is doing
that's actually that will help you come
out of this i know it sounds weird
but just noticing these thought patterns
will start to give you power over them
okay okay but what i'd really like to do
is i i think that basically what's going
on is that you
have like this programming in your head
and i think it actually comes from a
particular place
and as we understand like
where that programming comes from is we
understand why that voice
essentially like started in the first
place
and further more like what has
reinforced
the volume of that voice right because i
i think
at this point if we kind of talk about
it like what we see is that
it's that voice which has been looking
out for you
right like does that make sense
yeah the the guiding voice in your head
that tells you
how to succeed day to day yeah yeah
right but it's also the voice that kind
of like makes you feel like as you say
you get shot on a daily basis
because you know it's all tangled up
right
so so what i want you to understand is
that like you know our mind
does things to adapt to particular
situations
and then what ends up happening usually
later in life
is that some of those things can be
become maladaptive
so you learned how to be like
essentially like a one-man show right
like
you know i i would guess that while your
parents probably told you like oh it's
good to do
in school like they weren't the ones
keeping track
of like which classes you need to repeat
right right like you were doing that for
yourself so like
like like your ability and so that like
that sort of self-reliance was probably
like
really helpful back then but now as you
mentioned i'm glad you brought it up
because then you know i don't i don't
have to but
i i think like when it comes to romantic
relationships and stuff it's going to
cause problems
like because because and so i know it
sounds weird but
i'd rather be dead than weak i think
that's actually not
the original slogan that's the rebrand
i think actually this problem starts
with the phrase
making sure and that if you can
if you can learn how to like not make
sure
that dot dot dot then
your life will be quite different does
that make sense
or is that too vague no it makes sense
yeah no it's like make sure you don't do
this negative thing or else it'll lead
into that negative
yep so i'd say that the really the
controlling thing in your life is like
you know and even if you kind of talk
about confiding how your day is like
what are you really doing when you
don't share how you really feel
you're making sure right what are you
making sure
when does that make sense is that like i
know it's kind of a weird question
i guess i'm making sure that i'm like
not exposing myself
exactly right so like what are you
actually controlling like you're
controlling the perception you're making
sure
that this person does not think about
you
this way and so what i'm really hearing
is that like
like you know i could be wrong here okay
so this is i'm presenting you with a
hypothesis and it's
you know you're welcome to push back but
like the theme that i'm really hearing
is that like
you're making sure because it's it's
interesting because i'm gonna just start
tying stuff together okay
could be relevant i mean i don't really
know we're like
you know we're in alpha testing here
okay nowhere near a finished product
this idea of like no safety net right
and and so like if you think about like
you know what is someone who's
you did a beautiful job of creating this
imagery of like you know a horse hair
that is like stretched across for a
hundred miles
and what is someone who has to cross
that tightrope
have to do they have to make sure
because there's nothing to catch them
yeah right and like you know why can't
you tell people how you feel because you
have to make sure
that something when you when you know
why do you have to like
work you know you wake up every day at 8
00 a.m and and and you know you're like
oh my work my weekends are my busy days
but it sounds like you work seven days a
week
and then i get a little bit of me time
and then even get a bit of me time yeah
but even in the me time right your your
mind is like you better make sure like
you're not going to give yourself
any me time if your mind says you need
to make sure
dot dot dot because in the meantime i'm
guessing goes out the window
we haven't even talked about it but i'd
also guess that you know you said two
two hours
two years ago you're saying you would
work for 24 hours at a stretch
no work-life balance and i'd guess that
the main thing was that you had to make
sure
you had to make sure this went okay this
goes back to your partner business where
like you're kind of like i can't really
trust anyone right because
you have to make sure that everything is
okay
yeah so what i feel so like for me it's
also
i guess there's also a feeling of like i
have to be in control of myself and i
can't just you know
deconstruct my feelings and myself in
front of somebody else i don't want to
i guess there's also a feeling of i
don't need i don't want to feel like i
ever have to rely on
even if it's in like a roman
relationship like i want to feel like if
if something ever happens in that right
like god forbid like a partner passes
away or something you know what i mean
like
acts of god that i can at least
compartmentalize and like make sure that
i'm still
me yeah so so i think that's a great
example right so because i think here's
the thing
you can't make sure that acts of god
won't happen
absolutely so what can you make sure
i can see in front of me and i feel like
i can control right like what i think is
within my grasp you know
so i'm gonna i'm gonna jump a little bit
here okay so what you can
make sure of is that you don't fall in
love with someone that acts of god can
take away from you
right lord i made that mistake yeah
yeah have your phones
i fell in love with uh individuals with
your health
that you know i don't want to elaborate
further because i don't want to like you
know
expose what they have but point is it's
it's terminal and i guess i knew that
going ahead of time like falling in love
with somebody knowing years later that
they would be gone
exactly the smartest thing i could have
done but you know emotions are emotion
they tend to happen and
i made that mistake you know
in life they're still fine now don't
worry like they have a few more years to
go
yeah that was you know it's a rare thing
when i say something like that is like a
hypothetical
no this person has a well i'll tell you
this person has a
pot so it's uh tachycardia it's really
bad
um they have a couple more syndromes
regarding it like long qt and everything
of that nature so
for them the they've had to get like
sinus note surgery modifications like
burning on their hearts and things like
that
uh doctors have told doctor specialists
who are trained in this field have
started to you know give up and
sort of give like end of life uh you
know i have to be told about like what a
dnr is like a do not resuscitate order
i don't know it's it's at the end stages
and that's um
it's a lot more common i guess than one
can expect you know people are going
through it they just don't really like
to talk about it
very similar to how i don't like to talk
about what my head is doing people don't
like to ever talk about their
physical ailments until you end up
getting to love them and you know
that comes out
sorry i need a minute to process that i
was not expecting that one
how are you feeling when i say i need a
moment to process is it more of like oh
my god like i know i know i know you're
i know it's definitely like you know a
lot to deal with
it's still a lot to deal with mentally
in my head realizing somebody of my age
is going through that
um especially somebody i still very
deeply care about but you know
can i ask you questions about
no i i have no interest in in digging
into that person's privacy but
right now i i can ask you about my side
of the
yeah yeah connection to that yeah yeah
okay
um yeah can you tell me how old you were
when you met this person
i would say that i was 24
24. so three years ago
and that's uh can can you tell me a
little bit about
how you it sounds like you fell in love
yeah you know we sort of met we hung out
for a bit and
eventually we shared some common
interests
uh you know she became much she became
my girlfriend
that's pretty much what it comes down to
but uh you know
around that time she told me very much
before we ever got together that she was
going through all of this and all of you
know
these health issues and at the time it
wasn't it wasn't as severe as it is now
so i was always in my head like ah
you'll get
positivity right i'm like you have the
best doctor care in the world you'll be
fine
and uh now it's also to a point where
you know the best doctors in the world
couldn't do it right god's calling her
home that kind of [ __ ]
so yeah
how do you how do you feel right now
sharing that
i feel really [ __ ] sad that i'm about
to lose someone as
it's in my head there's nothing that i
feel like personally is happening to me
like you know i'm being
affected mentally because of it because
in my head i'm just realizing
as much as it affects me right like you
know that's
i would say inconsequential to the
physical health of this other person
right
you know even if like it's hard to see
somebody in that situation you know what
i mean like i don't want to see
somebody in that situation even wherever
i care about and so i try to like
distance myself in a way as much as i
can
you know by burying myself in work or a
hobby or something but then like
you know you can't completely do that
you can't completely ignore the world
around you
so i look at that
and i guess i get really angry seeing
that that's happening to somebody i care
about somebody
a very young age you know in their
mid-20s like me
it's like what the [ __ ] you know like
i guess i'm more angry than i am
thinking about myself because i don't
really matter in the
scheme of thing when it when i'm looking
at you know somebody go through sailing
they're about to go die and you know
i'm about to you know live on in the
world
while losing somebody so what right do
you have to complain
yeah right exactly like i'm sitting over
here
and you know i'm not dying with a
functioning heart
yeah right like i'm not dead you know i
get to i get to see tomorrow i get to
see
our acts of god 2022 2023 and beyond
you know this person is at the end you
know
i mean there was a period of my life
where i actually thought i could have it
like i could have had like
family something going forward right
like it could have worked past it could
have been everything
i i had i had a i had a brief moment of
like
i could have like you know really i
could settle down for once and then
things started messing up and we ended
up growing apart
you know because of my work and
everything
that was it you know do you do you talk
to her
oh yeah here and there you know we have
uh you know it's not like we
stopped communicating fact i'm
one of the few people aside from her
parents she'll communicate to about
health issues right i guess i'm like an
emergency contact
so that tends to happen does she know
how much she means to you yeah
i tell her that yeah i tell her that you
know at the end of the day i wish
things could have been different but uh
you know they're not
does she get to see strong muda or weak
muda
i don't think she's ever seen weak muta
to be honest with you it's been we
weren't
long enough together for her to ever see
me like
i think in a lot of ways when i saw her
in the way that she was and i saw her
physical like
you know issues her terminal issues like
you know health problems i'd never ever
wanted to show her
muta because i was like this [ __ ] on a
daily basis
and she was already really strong you
know like dealing with all of her
illnesses
when you're putting a smile on your face
after the specialists have told you
no i don't know if i could know you know
what i mean i don't know if i
i recently had appendicitis surgery
right and i remember waking up in
recovery and the doctor like
was telling me we did your blood test uh
you're gonna have to stay another day
i was losing in my mind i'm like die you
know what i mean like what is he saying
right and i mean
that was like inconsequential compared
to like this right like i was like
i was i was in a recovery i was going to
come out just fine but then i look at
her situation and it's like the doctors
the specialists are telling her okay we
should be discussing eol and all this
nonsense only dude that would have
completely broken me mentally i don't
know if i could have done it i think at
that point i would
prefer that they stuck some cyanide in
me and like ended it right there but i
mean if you're still putting on a smile
and you're still fighting through it and
[ __ ] if you're still exercising day in
and day out because of it
you're you're stronger man than i a
stronger person than i you know
so uh when it came to being with her
i always had to put on like an extra
smile i guess so to speak like i had to
bring out the extra smile just so that
you know since i knew this person was
already putting so much effort into
keeping sane themselves i didn't want to
bring them down
right like that's the last thing like
we're in a relationship i don't want to
like you know drag you down
you know if you're working so hard to be
where you're at and also in a way
dragging
too
i'm gonna need a minute i don't know
this is this is quite the curveball it's
not what i was expecting
yeah well
it's a it's an interesting it's an
interesting like point man because
when we're talking about the loss of
loved ones isil
it all sort of ties back to that
beginning right like the loss of loved
ones
i mean you're the psychologist but i
know there's never like a one track
answer to any of this
there's never like a one straight up
solid answer to how to deal with
for impending doom or any of this nature
what makes it there isn't one solid
answer
because because human beings aren't you
know computers right there's no like one
program you can run and you get
a finite result at the end right like
the brain is different
um and again i'm not a psychologist but
i like to think that human beings are
much more complex than you
we let on so it's like when it comes to
grief everyone goes through it in a
different way
who knows that's where my mind is
okay
so there are a couple of different
directions i'm i'm honestly mood i'm
gonna need your help
and and i hope you're not getting this
is like um
you know like you're so messed up that i
can't it it's really more about
that no i i know okay okay so so i it's
really just about choice because i think
there are a couple of uh
they're just a couple of really
important conversations that we could
have
from this point forward and and i i'm
having trouble
choosing and i was hoping you could help
me pick
okay so one is you know we could talk
more about your
friend who it sounds like is terminally
ill
which and and
relating to that there's just that
we could talk about that we can also
talk a little bit about and also
relating to that like
i think there's a important conversation
to be had about
showing weakness um
and and i know it sounds kind of weird
but like
i've worked with like terminal cancer
patients uh
mostly cancer and and sometimes you know
the family's trying to be like really
really strong for this person
but like actually what like
everyone's just pretending to be part of
a play
where like no one is being authentic and
it really doesn't
like it can actually be like really
wonderful to let
people who you care about know that life
is hard for you to
it can actually be like really really
healing to i know it sounds kind of
weird but have the terminally ill person
comfort you
like it can mean a lot to them it can
mean a lot to you
like and it's kind of weird but you kind
of feel like they're the only ones that
need support whereas
i i know you know for a lot of people if
you really think about love like what is
someone you know you want to take care
of her
and presuming she feels the same way
like she wants to take care of you so in
a weird way one of the nicest things you
can do for her is to
let her take care of you
so there's a there's a conversation
there if you want to talk more about
that that's fine i've also
noticed that um you know you're
talkative
and and so i think we can just kind of
meander a little bit
um yeah we can meander and and you can
just
i'm happy to just listen because i think
you're saying a lot of
important things that need to be said
and
the third thing that that i was which is
sort of what i was originally kind of
hinting at when i
offered this hypothetical but was just
sort of trying to understand like where
does making sure
come from like where does that complex
in your mind
if i were to call it something i'd call
it the making sure monster
because it's interesting because you say
like my brain won't let me which then
begs the question what is your brain and
what are you
but i i think what we're really talking
about is like it's the making sure
monster right so if you sit down and you
do nothing for 15 minutes
the making sure monster will be like no
no like you should be doing something
that way we can make sure
that something you know that this will
go well tomorrow
so it's you know we can kind of
leave it up to rng we can go down
talking about
you know loss of loved ones and and sort
of what makes it hard for you to express
vulnerability
or we can talk about the origins of the
making sure monster
i feel like if i do the making sure
monster i'll be able to learn about
myself more
i'd rather i want to deal with the
making sure monster
i feel like that's a mentality that's
going to be the hardest thing i've ever
done in my life
to get out of yep i i would agree i
think that's going to be the most useful
so let me ask you something how long
have you been making sure
fifteen sixteen okay
you sure it's not even before that
wow you're really you're really getting
me about elementary school all of a
sudden
jesus you're getting me all the way back
to the sixth grade with that
i wouldn't say it was like as insane but
yeah i guess i was making sure since
tell me about the sixth grade
sixth grade um we ended up moving for a
bit like couple months
and uh this is a time when i was moving
back and forth from canada
and the states and there's a period when
i got into canadian school again
that they told me that i was going to
fail the sixth grade because i guess
things were going to try
maybe i had to do a read and
i remember my parents being there with
the teacher that day
we were having this long discussion and
my parents they weren't they weren't mad
at me but i thought they were you know
they thought it was like stupid how the
hell do you have to repeat the sixth
grade they never said it but in my head
that's the only thing that i could think
of right
i never asked them about that i never
bothered to
what am i going to ask my parents that
i'm i'm a [ __ ]
idiot so i didn't and it was at that
point i guess it's
great that i had to make sure that i go
to middle school right i go to the
seventh grade i go one more up
so i made sure by then
and i guess it wasn't i i hate to say
that i was making sure
ever since then because i don't think
the feeling is something that i
recognized until i was 15 and 16 when i
started
when i knew that i had the feeling but i
guess if i
sixth grade was that point
i honestly i i hate to say it but i also
very much remember i don't remember a
whole lot of my
life at this before the sixth grade
like i know that sounds weird to say
because people should have memories of
it but
i've lived such a blur at this point
that when i think you know like what was
grade five four
three two like i've forgotten like
teacher names at the point like i've
forgotten you know
every like i've forgotten you know the
final tales and i've also forgotten
well i've forgotten the course details
as well too i find that i can understand
but
i should be able to remember a chunk of
it were you worried about needing to
repeat a grade like did you have any
inkling before that conversation
with that teacher and your parents that
things could have gone wrong
um yeah i know when the teacher told me
right like my parents
and i had that but uh did i have any
like i think i was too young to
understand the idea of when i had
so i didn't know about that
oh sorry your voice clipped out there
for a second oh
uh yeah but i don't think that i i like
when my teacher told me that i had to do
it when my parents had to come in that's
when i knew i don't think i had a
realistic understanding of what it meant
like to repeat the grades
no no can you just tell me as much like
do you mind just telling me like a brief
story about
the sequence of events and like what you
remember like
i'd love to hear a little bit so what
are
like how it happened so for us when we
started this
when we started school again right in
like september and everything
um things were fine uh probably up until
november is when we had to like move to
the states and everything so we ended up
switching schools out into the states uh
this is around michigan
so we ended up going to michigan in the
sixth grade for me
i went to school there for a little bit
um until
february or whatever like this was you
know we immediately
uh and then around february
my dad you know had to move back to
canada for his job and everything right
and
initially i remember at the time that my
dad was moving back and forth like he
was coming back and forth from the
states and canada all the time
so eventually you know in that sixth
grade right like when i'm telling you
like november we moved with my dad
because we wanted you know i guess my
mom and dad wanted us to be sort of like
a family rather than my dad going out
and
hearing that when i came back you know
in february to school
i i guess the system was so different
that i may have had to repeat the sixth
grade because i was missing like a chunk
of the curriculum
um so around the time of you know
february when like this
came up right like and at this point
march had started to roll in and this
was a week before march break
so like my teacher you know they brought
in my parents they talked about what i'm
missing out of the curriculum so i
remember i had to read like two books
i had to do like a big like project a
big project you know
sixth grade project like something you
do over the weekend like put stuff on
cardboard paper or whatever i had to do
a bunch of these reports or whatever
basically i had to do the entire
curriculum
of six months school you know and i did
it all in march break like i
i i asked my teacher i'm like can i just
have all of what i missed
and can i just do it for you so i
remember i spent that entire march break
i didn't go outside and play or do
anything i literally
did a curriculum work right in march i
read literally like two books and back
then
you're in the sixth grade right like a a
book is like a book is like a commitment
you know yeah now it's like now it's
like nightly reading
so i'm doing this entire like do these
two book reports and i ended up getting
it done in like two
three weeks and it wasn't until the
end of that entire year now my teacher
was like no you'll be fine you're
you're going to the seventh grade like i
remember the day came
where we all went into a room the entire
sixth grade class
so it's like we were split right they
started to give us sort of this middle
school um
orientation where they split us up into
different classrooms they gave us like
lockers so they made us feel like we're
in middle school kind of going into high
school
and the last day of school they brought
us into the room it's like
congratulations
you all graduated that was the most
relaxing thing that i've ever heard in
my life because i knew
i knew when i knew in my head she was
talking to me you know
i knew in my head she had to she the
only reason she said that
is so that you could finally say okay
i'm getting through school i'm
graduating finally i'm not a total idiot
like
you know so so when they were like
assigning lockers and stuff did you
think that like
that stuff may not apply to you like it
applied to all of your clients
i mean for the longest time i was like i
was like what's the point of me doing
this i'm gonna have to repeat sixth
grade again so until the last day came
like you all graduated
and they gave us like our report cards
and like those brown envelopes and [ __ ]
i was like oh my god i succeeded i
i honestly to this day i've never even
asked anybody else if a teacher has said
that to him right like in the sixth
grade like it feels so foreign to me
is it normal for a sixth grade teacher
to tell the entire class you all
graduated
it's elementary school but i mean for me
a kid who's on like that verge of
failure
i guess from what i know congrats i
succeeded
and then i go into the seventh and
eighth grade and i wouldn't say that i
feel
this this uh moment of like um
i i guess i guess i'm not a feeling of
like making sure in the seventh or
eighth grade
but even when you go into the seventh
grade they're telling you all right
you're going to need this and this if
you want to go to high school because we
had like high schools we could apply to
back then like those
like uh i remember kathra uh the greater
toronto area was like this artsy sort of
like
college that people could apply to
gordon grayson was like a business
school that you could apply to um we
were talking about high school
applications back then bro
[ __ ] insanity if i'm gonna be honest
with you but
yeah that's what uh that's what we had
to that's what i was doing
back in the day it felt it dude i feel
like it was i grew up in like
india abroad you know because it's like
you know you hear all the stories of
like people back in india it's like
you need a 99 gpa to get into the best
indian universities imagine well i'm
like [ __ ] man
no one's getting that
it's kind of crazy right because i what
i'm really hearing is like
when before your your march break you
kind of have a sit down with your
parents
and and your parents what what are they
what did they say like i
do you remember i remember like my mom
was the one that was trying to like you
know rationalize she's like you gotta go
to
we're gonna talk to your teacher she's
going to give us all the schoolwork and
you're going to get it done you know
you're going to have you're going to
make sure that it's it's done right like
that's what you can do
my dad didn't really say anything to me
like i don't remember anything my mom
was the only one that walked me through
it because she's like
she is kind of like me she knows how to
you know break things down
flowchart your way through so that's
pretty much what my mom got me through
my dad didn't
say anything i asked him later on you
know
after you know my teacher was like
everyone graduated i'm like were you
guys ever mad at me my dad was like
no he understood everything
but uh it was it's also dude it's also
weird from a social perspective too
because when you're in the sixth grade
and you know your entire
grade because i grew up with some of
these people they're going a year ahead
of you
and now you're getting like last year's
kids coming up to you
yeah and everyone knows you're there
like makes you feel even dumber than you
usually are [ __ ]
yeah no i think it's quite humiliating
i'm wondering what is
what are you imagining also yeah yeah go
ahead and go ahead no i was just saying
like it's also kind of weird like
i've carried that mentality in in
college too because uh there was a
period where i did some continuing
education
and like it only became normal for me
when i ended up going
education i was like oh wow there's
people that are like 50 coming with me
okay
like my classmates are you know varying
ages people my i was me and my buddy
were like
one of my closest friends now as we're
one of the youngest people in our
continuing education courses because we
were doing like after effects
uh continuing education and like all of
our peers were like 40 45 so we're like
oh
okay it's normal yeah cool
[Music]
sorry i get too chatty about it when you
want me to describe something i will
describe it
no i think it's wonderful i think it so
i'm going to ask you kind of a weird
question
okay there's there's going to be a weird
question maybe weird emotions will come
up
what do you imagine your dad was feeling
during that meeting
think he took it on himself because i
think he i think he came to the
realization that him moving around a lot
cost us i think he even realized that
when
um i i think to an extent the
conversation he had where he told me
like
how do you know if you're going to be
alive so many so years
came up you know i think he has to know
like my dad's my dad's a smart guy he
knows
that he cost you know family that and i
feel terrible saying that because i feel
like i'm calling my dad a terrible
person for that [ __ ] but it's not
so the truth like we ended up fine you
know but i think my dad realized that
his actions
may have caused difficulty for me
growing up and even my brother like i
haven't
i've never talked brother about his
school he turned out just fine now
but i've never had that discussion too
so i feel like to an extent
my dad has to know he probably has that
in his head
so what dad doesn't realize yeah so what
what do you
what do you think about that how does
that how does it feel
that makes me feel worse though if i'm
making my dad go through that yeah
because like i feel like if my dad
thinks that way i'm like then i feel
like wow i guess i caught
it [ __ ] in a way and it's like it
doesn't even make any logical sense but
that's what my brain is doing too
yeah right so and and so
if you're strong for your dad
what does that do for him
i feel like that relaxes him in my head
like for me i look at my dad i'm like
okay you're getting old now so
i'm your oldest son so i gotta you know
step up and make sure that
the rest of your retirement days are
solid and relaxed you know like that's
what i'm so
to me my parents are the most important
thing yep i
i i do i go to bed like every once in a
while and i think of a day when they
eventually have to pass and everything
and i don't know how i like that's
uncopable in my head because i'm like
closest people i've ever had and it's
like regardless of what has happened
i don't know what i'll ever do you know
yeah so
you know how okay we're gonna really go
i'm gonna go
hunting now okay so i'm gonna ask you a
lot of specific and arguably leading
questions
okay let me know if it starts to feel
weird so
you said that you know you you said
several times actually during this
conversation
that you would have never let your dad
know that him moving around was hard on
you
yeah i don't think i would want to no
right so let's think a little bit about
why not because i feel like he'd blame
himself
okay yeah and slamming himself yeah no
wouldn't be good
for me when you say wouldn't be good for
you how would you
feel if your dad blamed himself yeah
i feel like i'm causing my dad some
level of grief when i could have just
kept it to myself and maybe
in blissful ignorance life would have
moved on and
all this would have been a memory
okay so i know it sounds kind of weird
and now i'm gonna
look for a particular answer so when you
don't tell your dad about what your
experience is when you don't open up to
him
what are you doing
i'm lying to you you're sure you're
lying so the word i was looking for is
protect
yeah what do you think about that
i want to say protect but literally we
just had a conversation
not five minutes ago where i know that
in his you know what he's done
moving around and everything so it's
like what am i protecting him from the
fact that
excellent am i protecting him from like
him i know
the reality of this okay i feel like in
some ways when i lie to him
i'm feeling like an idiot because he
knows what like he's not
so yeah some days what am i even doing
okay let's just go on with it yep so so
this is where it was adaptive at one
point it's not stupid it's just
maladapted because i think this is like
literally that this this is a pattern i
see a lot where like
when sometimes our parents in a sense do
the best that they could right like your
dad did the best he could
oh absolutely and and you love him and
respect him for all the sacrifices he
made and it
can't have been easy like for him to
have to move you know every six months
to like
michigan canada was rough right yeah
and and who bore the brunt of the
situation that
he was in
i mean i i don't know what his work life
was ever like
you know i don't know what he was doing
in the professional career
you know what i mean like i was too
young and i never asked i i don't know
dealing what but i knew at the time like
my mom was dealing with you know
because at one point dude it felt like
she was a single mom for a while you
know what i mean like
literally when you see your dad like one
weekend out of the month
you know you're way closer to your mom
felt like she was super alone
me and my brother were just on my own
too
you know like we were just doing our
life the way that we did it we never had
like
say family normality and
have like i guess everyone around me i
must
be with their mom and dad i was just
always with my mom and
even then i was always doing schoolwork
or
you know all that [ __ ]
even the time when like i moved around
and we lit my dad dr
work in that period
it's like how do you how do you like how
do you just make everything
you're cutting out sorry sorry oh i'm
sorry i don't i think it might be
but it's like how do you move in like
how do you move
together as a family right and then make
it normal in a day
right like how do you act like of how do
you like
participate in family activity after
like like
when we moved in november together and
we started living
it's like okay what's going on
right like i guess we're together now
let's
we'll be yeah it's like it feels pretty
artificial
the event honestly it still feels
artificial to this day even like
even going all the way up to now like
just
i would say in a matter of like a few
years ago i started becoming closer to
my family because there was a point
where like
i left like college you know like i left
and went into the world and lived my
life and now i'm more
participant in my family at least direct
family um
now like years ago but it's like how do
you how do you how do you get back to
normal
like how do you make something that you
know isn't normal like
we're we're gonna help you with that
yeah okay
so why do things in a family feel
artificial
why because they are artificial
okay right simple
yeah and and so i know it sounds kind of
weird but like muda what i get the sense
of is that like there's a lot
hanging between you and your dad
and so like sometimes like like there's
a lot behind
what he told you like you know he's like
you don't even know if you're gonna be
alive when you're 40 right like
that i'm sure that it's important for
him to say it sounds like it's a really
important conversation
but do you get how like that's the
output and there's a lot of like
number crunching behind what he says
like does that make sense
there was a lot more to his answer to me
that he was thinking that i just never
picked up on you yeah right so like
like your dad doesn't just show up to
you and he's like
hey where'd you have for lunch today
cool yeah
are you gonna be alive when you're 40
like what that's not
right so he's like thinking about
something
processing observing something within
you
and then decides to like give you this
particular package
yeah right so like he's been thinking
about this so like i think that what
i think the reason that there's some
amount of like artificiality
is because you guys are both
ignoring the same damn thing
and so like like you know and you guys
have learned how to do this for a while
because you all have been doing it now
for like what sounds like
you know a decade or two yeah where you
all have learned
you all have learned like not like
because like because it's interesting
right so you're you're
you watch game of thrones or have you
read the book i
have watched maybe episode one of game
of thrones i've never been into that
yeah anyway so so like you know if there
was a house of muda
the words would be so each house
has words right so your house words are
better dead than weak those are the
words of house
the slogan on the slogan on the house
yeah the slogan on the house exactly
like when you
walk in like that's what better dead
than weak and it's interesting right
because like when i hear that sixth
grade story like i
i totally get why your mind jumps there
because
you know you had a choice like you can
be like oh [ __ ]
can i do six months worth of work in two
weeks
i would rather be dead
yeah right so like well i mean i don't
wanna i don't wanna fail yeah
yeah right so like like i'm not gonna be
left behind like if i have to sacrifice
two weeks of my life
i'm doing book reports i'm i'm gluing
stationary stuff together i'm gonna i'm
working in a i'm in a sweatshop of my
own for two weeks yeah
absolutely and it's a sweatshop that
you've been in
since the sixth grade it's the boxing
ring
that we're round after round and never
around
there's no there's no like it's not even
like the round over chills out you know
i mean it's like you sound like you have
a
10 second break to drink water no you
just keep going with the blood
it's it's the sweatshop of your own
making and i think it's like i
because i i think back in the sixth
grade i realize i'm bouncing around a
lot right because i'm just gonna start
spitballing here but like i think you
kind of learned a really important
lesson back then
which is that you know it's it's really
interesting because it's that there's
circumstances outside of your control
and that your life can be screwed by
things that are like
completely like outside of there's
almost like a healthy amount of paranoia
which i can imagine
gets set in the mind at that point like
you just can't count on like you never
know
when your teacher is gonna call a
conference
like you never know and then
if you work really really hard
then you can like there's a way forward
and the only thing you have to sacrifice
is yourself and so like
there's there's a lot there in that
story about like
you know sort of being put into bad
situations because of other people
sort of not being able to rely on others
like
you know like your dad's sort of like
not really owning up to
you know like why you're in that
situation in the first place like not to
say that you shouldn't have done the
work or things like that and
it's not even to say that like he really
had much of a choice because you know
sometimes you just got to follow where
the work is
yeah but i think that's where like a
really healthy conversation at that
point
really could have been hey son i'm sorry
you're in this situation
we have to do this because of work i
love you a lot
i you know i know you can do the work
like i'm sorry to put you into this
situation
um but this is just the way that it has
to be right now
like what are you feeling as i say those
things
i've never heard that out of his mouth
actually
i wish i wish well i mean i've heard
half of that
i never really uh
yeah that uh that
god that perfectly exemplifies what you
know the whole situation was like
i know that he had to do his [ __ ] but
god some days i wish you wouldn't
yeah some days i kind of wish he
i kind of wish our family was god you
know i i t
i take living in absolute abject shitty
conditions
if it meant my family was more together
but
maybe that maybe that's why i keep
thinking you know in some ways if i ever
get to be a dad
if like if that day ever comes
i don't want to have to be the one
moving around i don't want to have to
i want to be able to you know have
everything
in the most perfect way that i can even
if that means
killing part of myself to achieve it you
know what i mean
sure what i'm hearing from you is you
want to make sure
that your children never have to go
through what you went through
absolutely and muda is well worth
sacrificing
for that yeah
100 i
uh you you 100
hit my mindset right there and you know
the thing is
i in a way i've i've even told myself
i'm like there's got to be something
wrong to
never i've never sat down and did the
original you know like
you know how you know you do like the uh
the good and bad you know sort of tea
table
i've never done that i've never come
across with bad i've always realized
it's always good for the people around
you it's always good if you have kids
for their
benefit growing up it doesn't really
matter tough through it
you've already done it so far what's
another few decades
right sure you know
so now we get to a really important
question right so
a little while ago i asked you do you
want this to change
and you said you remember what you said
about the what's going on so so
you were like yeah i think we're
probably rapping we're probably hitting
the limit because i think you've done a
lot of good work today
i'd love to tie it up for you a little
bit more but i think you should just
process this so i'm going to try to
summarize okay
and give us at least a stopping point
i'll make a couple recommendations
first is like when we talk about
better dead than weak gotta make sure
and you were like yeah this is the thing
that has been like running my life and i
want it to change
but now after we talk about it do you
i don't think so no good right so now we
understand
because what is the and don't worry
we'll flip-flop you back and forth a
couple times okay
so like because what would be the cost
of you changing
everyone around me right
so and and what we're thinking about is
like if you changed if you started to
become more indulgent like
you could be subject to the whims of the
world
right like this goes back to control
like you're not gonna give up the
[ __ ] control
that your dad did not have like you are
gonna move mountains to make sure
that like you're gonna make sure right
because it's like you're not gonna be in
that situation
where you have to do something that
could potentially hurt your kids
yeah [ __ ] that never
and so then the next question that i
have for you
is what do you think your kids will do
when they grow up if you do that
if i do what i'm doing right now what
are you gonna learn and what are you
gonna teach them
i mean if i if i had a kid i feel like i
could honestly
i feel like i pass on the same [ __ ] yep
i feel like i feel like i tell them like
honestly if i had a kid i would tell
them
life for people like for for you and me
and
our entire like everyone around us
you've only got yourself
like i'm here like if i have my kid i
tell them listen i'm here
in the ground after me you've got no one
else but yourself
no one else that you can rely on you
better learn to [ __ ]
dig your heels in the ground and make
something worthwhile or
die like the rest of okay
like yeah i
think that's what your dad taught you
right
because he's like you got to do like is
your dad
weak no
no i don't know no he's worked hard yeah
yeah right
like so he taught you that lesson too he
was like if you have to commute to
michigan
every single weekend that's what you do
to provide for your family i
i look at my dad like this you know he
went to medical school twice
one in india one over here could get
your medical
license in one part of the world you
don't get it carried over here so
yeah when i look at my dad and i look at
all he had to do like imagine
across the world at age 35
you're young but you know you're hitting
that middle age pretty [ __ ] quickly
you got a wife you got a kid you got
another kid on the way
[ __ ] you know you can either my dad
worked his
ass off when i was you know there were
days where
when we moved into the gta we lived in
an apartment in east toronto
and i got to see my dad once out of the
week
okay because back then to pay for
medical school again
he would have to pour it right so he
would drive from toronto all the way to
my
[ __ ] insane drive back and forth day
to day to day to day to day-to-day
and i i mean at one point the man
[ __ ] kills himself right like you
have no personality of nothing
you gotta do gotta do to money
to pay off these mounting debts he
taught and eventually
yeah yeah i'm gonna interrupt and
he taught you this lesson which you were
going to pass on to your children right
yeah and what is he trying to teach you
now
i feel like he's trying to teach me that
i have to i have to keep my [ __ ]
together
i have to stand on my own two feet
because there's not going to be anybody
else out there that's going to do it for
me
i also feel like you can't rely on
anyone so i i think if you pay attention
to his last conversation right when he
comes to you and he says you don't know
if you're going to be alive when you're
40.
[Music]
i think he's trying in his own way to
tell you that like
you know i'm not so sure
right like that sounds yeah because he's
lived it yeah because right
he's saying like he's actually saying
like don't be like me
dude i just feel like man after all this
[ __ ] i feel like the only
normal generation after
like as far as i feel like after like
this entire situation the only like
normal generation that i'll have a
chance to make their
own decisions and will have a chance of
normality in this part of the world
is the next generation after me i feel
like i'm already going
already going blow-by-blow you know
yeah to live that normal life that's
what i'm only worried about right
because i've already been past it my
childhood's gone you know i'm an adult
so i got to make sure it doesn't repeat
itself
yeah so there's more there right
there's a lot to talk about there which
is like i'm sorry if my mic keeps
cutting out by the way
um i just like i keep looking at the uh
discord light
so i don't know let me just yeah is it
better now
it look yeah it seems better yeah but um
i think sometimes it's when you move
around but so here's here's what i'd say
murder like
i know we've been at it for a little
while i think we've covered some good
stuff
um you know the next generation things
like that i i don't think your
generation is lost yet i also don't
think you're lost and i think you can
reclaim some of your childhood as well
but i want to leave you with a couple
things to think about okay
right first is i think you got to talk
to your dad
i think you got to have a lot of
conversations with him oh
yeah we do right so that that is
that you say that but man in my head
that's like the hardest thing to ever
achieve man to sit down with my dad and
have this discussion
holy [ __ ] dude i would rather architect
like entire server farms for a company
and get over this jesus christ that's
too much you know
yeah so the the good news is that you
know if you want to he can just watch
this
although i imagine you'll be terrified
of him watching
because yeah because it's going to be
hard to protect him if he listens to you
right
absolutely if he actually hears what you
have to say like you see that you
want to protect him you don't ever want
him to watch this and the reason you
don't want him to watch this is because
he may feel bad
oh absolutely yeah right so so you got
to be careful because i think i think in
order for you and your dad to like
really connect in the way that like
sounds important to me it's important to
me i you have to [ __ ] decide if it's
important to you but
you know i think it's about talking a
little bit about you know like because
there's i think there's a really healthy
way to have the conversation which is
sort of
you know you love him you respect him
you completely understand the sacrifices
he made he did the best that he could it
was really hard
and it also kind of sucked for you
and if he's if his narcissistic defense
mechanisms are
are up he'll get mad at you and he'll
say
you are grateful little blah blah blah
blah
right but but i think that the reason
that those
narcissistic defense mechanisms arise is
because
they arise to protect himself from his
own guilt
right and and so i think that like not
you don't have to blame him i i think
you can just
but but i think like it's it's i don't
like i don't blame my dad or anything of
that nature you know like at the end of
the day like i know
i i'm completely understanding of what
he's done you know like yeah
so it's not like my dad ruined my
childhood right of course
yeah so so i and i think if you want an
easy way
okay so i'm gonna try to protect your
brain
so like an easy way to enter into a
conversation with your dad is is that
you just revisit this conversation about
like are you going to be alive when
you're 40.
you just ask your dad questions like hey
dad like last week or a month ago or a
year ago or whenever he had it you
remember you told me this thing
i was hoping to understand that you
don't have to talk about feelings
you don't have to talk about the past
you don't have to demonstrate weakness
he doesn't have to demonstrate weakness
and then i would ask him so that's the
first question you feel okay asking that
question
yeah i can actually okay if it's like
purely non you know like no
confrontation nothing edges no
yep yep easy easy questions okay we're
gonna go nice and smooth so then the
next question is like
can you tell me a little bit about like
what you know when you
when i was your age like what was going
through your head about your life
and ask him like you know what it what
do you see like how do you see me living
my life what do you think about the way
i'm living my life what do you think i
you know because he's
saying that to you for a reason and how
did you live your life back then how did
you live your life in your 30s what was
it like to have to go through
like residency again or medical school
again yeah
you know and just ask him questions
about like his his upbringing and stuff
like that
and and then you know that's gonna be
safe
and then you know if you ever
are able to or he may go there
um you can also have a conversation
about you know what it was like growing
up and like
just try to understand his perspective
and and i think the closer you you the
the more he starts talking about
you growing up the closer y'all are
gonna get to emotions
and you have to decide whether you're
comfortable
talking about that does that make sense
yeah i know it
should lead the conversation into where
he was at my point in life and see what
you know similarities
and and you guys may have the ability to
just communicate with each other
without ever saying anything but i think
both of y'all need to know
that like like there's something needs
to happen between y'all
yeah no i i think i think it's to me
i feel like the way that i want this
conversation to go is i want to like
really talk about the commonalities we
had because i know he's been
he's worked hard around my age too so i
want to see like
yep why like i mean when you're talking
about this whole cycle repeating itself
like this
maybe it has repeated itself more
literally than i'm thinking right now
maybe maybe the parallels are just more
there than it ever was you know
yep yep and then i would i would also
share with him this may be actually
safer because in the context of that
conversation
you can even tell him sometimes
when i sit down and i like try to take a
break my mind tells me i should be doing
more work
what do you think about that just ask
him about that
oh i feel i feel like we'll come across
some real commonality because i know my
dad he's definitely one of those
anxious people too yeah yeah he can't
take a break either
yeah and so i'd say start there and i
think more
long term
this is going to be harder but it's
definitely doable it's going to take
some work
i think you have to learn how to like
not be so sure about stuff
right like i think you've got to learn
how to like let go a little bit
and and sort of know that you can do the
most that you can do
and you can do the best that you can do
but that like
[Music]
you know that trust trust not
in your ability to make things perfect
trust in your ability for damage control
so basically flowchart less is my life
right
instead of thing instead of waking up
every day thinking of every possible
action instead of making like
you know every like because because in
my head i think of every find it like if
i do this
it could you know lead to this or that
or this or that maybe instead of you
know making six or seventy
different little boxes have it all one
box as a
this could happen and i'm going to have
to learn to adapt to it regardless of
how it happens
yeah sort of so i wouldn't quite say
flowchart less but what i'd say is what
you need to learn how to do is tolerate
uncertainty because i think it's the
uncertainty that terrifies you and it's
it's a lot of you trying because like
muda what you are is a control freak
because
uncertainty you've learned that that
uncertainty is like
just way too painful and and over time i
think what you
need to really do otherwise you really
are going to pass this on to your kids
which i'm sure that you'll
i mean i'm not sure but i imagine you'll
have one day
um and i just think it's karmic it's
just
two too too much karma
in your life to not have children um
but like like i i think it's it you got
to be a little bit careful because you
have to understand that like some of
some of your aversion to uncertainty i
think has come out of experiences
that are like like because you learned
early on that [ __ ] is out of your
control
so like if you double down i mean that
sixth grade story is perfect because
it's like
random thing happens to you that could
screw over your life
yeah and all you have to do is sacrifice
yourself get into the ring
and then you can alter the course of
fate
and so that lesson is what you've
has become a part of your fabric you can
cost yourself
and you you don't have to like bring
other people in it just takes you to win
you know that's
exactly yeah and and so i think as you
kind of work on that it's going to
become
important for romantic relationships and
stuff like that but i'd say start with
your dad and you know
there's more conversations i don't know
if you've ever worked with a therapist
but i think this is definitely the kind
of stuff you can work with a therapist
i've never worked with a therapist
actually i've always
again like it goes back to what you said
before i like do i feel weak when i open
myself up i don't think i could
it's hard for me to like go sit in front
of anybody even if it's like so
personally detached from me like a
therapist who you know
i pay this person we sit down we talk
they professionally you know
respond to me it's still so difficult to
let them into your head you know
how has this been difficult oh it's been
incredible
well this whole thing hasn't been
difficult like i've been able to ease in
with you it's kind of like you know
buddy talking but
it's just um i feel like i feel like if
this is
this is professional i don't want to say
that what we're doing isn't it's you
know it's not professional but
if this was a real professional setting
like if i was sitting with you right now
and like
in like an office like laying down on
one of those you know like
you know therapist beds or whatever i
don't think i could do it man i think i
probably i would walk out i'd be like
you know what man
not for me i get up in 10 minutes i'll
be like bye
so so what what about doing this
in front of thousands of strangers on
the internet
makes it easier for you than doing it
alone in the privacy of a therapist oh
it's uh it's streaming i'll be real with
you when i first started streaming in
front of like a couple hundred people it
used to be a little anxiety inducing
uh you just get that that i will say you
just get used to after a while it
becomes like a number you look at like
whatever okay it's just
it's someone on like the other side of
the world cool it's not
it's it's it's also just i don't know i
just i've
i've gotten used to seeing those number
counts like it's it is what it is
okay how i know is me and you are
talking you know yeah so
i know it sounds weird but that's the
strange thing that i've discovered is
that like actually a lot of people feel
the same way you do
and that like almost doing it in the
privacy of a therapist's office
which you know you're right that this
isn't we're more you know we're both
like we're streaming here we're more
like content creator colleagues just
having a conversation but
there is something strange about you
know this being more accessible
even though in theory it should be like
way harder to do i don't understand it
myself
but i totally get what i'm saying like i
feel like i'm just talking to
a dude we're just chilling yeah you know
there's it's like in a way it's i think
it's like being there and you know why
you're there like you understood like
when we started this conversation we
didn't exactly have like
a plan set or what we were going to
attack or whatever right
you know we didn't like jump down into
this like this is what we're gonna cut
like it just sort of led into one
another and it is
it is what it is you know has it been
tougher at times during the conversation
yeah
has it been easier yeah but you know
it's a conversation i could go with it's
again i don't want to say it's not
professional but it's like you said it's
just two dudes talking like
yeah yeah yeah no i i think it's it's i
mean this is not
therapy or medical advice so you know
there's a legal disclaimer of that which
yeah but but i mean i think there's also
something different i think this is
where a lot of people get
confused because they sort of say like
because actually you know
to just be just to be perfectly honest i
would be saying and doing different
things if the two of us were in our
office and i was your doctor
i would actually be doing things quite
differently but um
uh but then the last thought is just you
know if you're interested
then i mean i would actually recommend a
therapist in your case but
um you know if that doesn't feel
comfortable to you
we do actually have a coaching program
for content creators
which they seem to you know so far the
content creators seem to be happy we can
send you some info if you're interested
but
i'd be interested in that yeah yeah so
it it's
some stuff around work-life balance and
and things like that but
any questions for me muta before we wrap
up i know we've been at it for a while
you've been doing a fantastic job by the
way
it's hard i know i i i i
honestly i feel like you're giving me
the road map to have a discussion with
my dad
at some point so when this lockdown is a
little more eased up i think i'll take
him out to dinner just me and him
somewhere and we'll have this
conversation
um that's that's the only thing i'm
looking like really
forward to actually now like i'm not so
much scared of doing that
uh i want to you know it's just
something that i feel like needs to
happen i feel like it needs to be
discussed either do it now
or yeah or you let it screw up another
you know section of your life
yeah but yeah that's that's where i want
to go to now that's like the next
big point yeah well muda thank you so
much for coming on man
and and i hope the conversation goes
well you know
and we'll do i'll let you know yeah
yeah um and you know if any other
questions or anything like that pop up
just let us know we're happy to try to
support you love the work that you do
can you just tell us before we kind of
tap out um where we can find you and
what kind of work you do
you guys can find me at youtube.com
some ordinary gamers twitter is at
ordinary gamers
and i you really ask me the burning
question that i'm gonna ask myself what
my channel is about it's really anything
guys i make videos about tech i
comment on random stuff sometimes i
laugh at really stupid [ __ ]
uh i don't even know when i'm uploading
some days okay let me just tell you that
much but yeah that's what i do i i think
your channel is a fantastic example of
producing content
that the rando adhd gamer mind loves to
to consume yeah you do a good job of
actually just like
you know it's like it's not always the
same thing but it's it seems to be
in the same general ballpark yeah
yeah so yeah you all should you all
should check out
some ordinary gamers so thanks a lot for
coming on man good luck
yeah man good luck with you too take
care man take care
bye okay
all right so that interview was
phenomenal i think that guy is fantastic